(1+1) EA Algorithm Analysis

The results from F1 showed a fairly standard asymptotic curve, however some runs found more difficulty finding the
optimal solution compared to others. With a fairly tight standard deviation, there were some outliers reaching
the optimal solution almost 200% faster than the longest runs. Inversely, some runs stretched on for hundreds more
evaulations compared to the mean ending evaluation. 

The graph of F2 shows a pretty inconsistent set of features. The mean fitness, standard deviation, and outlying runs
all showcase a fairly erratic pattern. Despite this, the graph almost shows a more linear trend for the first 6000
evaluations, but becomes more asymptotic as runs begin to find their optimal solution. Interestingly, the graph's
standard deviation component shows signs of growing larger nearer to the end, potentially indicating that the
(1+1) EA algorithm might struggle to find the optimal solution in this given dataset.

F3 shows a much more compact set of results compared to F1 and F2. The mean and standard deviation are both qutie close
to even the furthest outliers. While some runs did take significantly longer to complete, the general fitness trend stayed
quite consistent between each run. Overall this graph displays a clear asymptotic curve, especially considering the longest
runs stretching on to over double that of the average finish time.

F18 begins to diverse in pattern, although setting the trend for future problems. These results stretched on for much higher
evaulation counts compared to F1, F2, and F3, requiring a logorithmic scale to be incorportated to see the proper trend.
While not crystal clear, the logarithmic curve demonstrates signs of a sigmoid curve, taking longer to begin proper fitness
improvements in the earlier evaluations. This is then followed by a fairly rapid increase throughout the middle of the graph,
before smoothing out a bit more at the end of the results.

Problem F23 demonstrates a much clearer sigmoid curve structure, but does interestingly show a massive standard devation
in the early evaluations. While the significantly spread fitness values early on cause a major spread in standard deviation,
the 100 evaulations mark sees quite the reduction in spread. This is even more noticeable at the 300-400 evaulations mark,
before nearly overlapping the mean fitness line despite stretching on for thousands more evaulations.

F24 shows a similarly shaped sigmoid curve, but has a more consistent standard deviation throughout the graph. While it does
become tighter, similar to most previous graphs, the spread at the end of the curve is quite distinct. This could be due to
the constraints of the problem, where more budget was needed to finish the problem entirely. However, as it is the (1+1) EA
algorithm had a mostly consistent spread all throughout the evaluations, only marginally getting closer to each other
after nearly a thousand evaulations had passed.

F25 also shows a sigmoid curve structure, but is significantly steeper in its curve. This problem did also produce results
much deeper into the allowed budget compared to other problems, finding improvements at up to 15,000-20,000 evaluations deep.
The standard deviation of this graph is also quite significantly compact all throughout the graph. One of the main differences
between F25 and F18, F23, and F24 is that there also appears to be another minor inflection near the end of the graph.
This may just be a case of random chance however, and recording more runs may flatten this anomaly out.

RLS algorithm analysis

The graph of F1 shows a standard asymptotic curve, although it does have a marginarlly tighter standard deviation component
compared to the F1 graph of (1+1) EA. It also displays more consistent improvements early on, along with taking approximately
60% of the evaluations to find the optimal solution.

F2 might be considered slightly more linear compared to the F2 graph of (1+1) EA, although the runs that make up this graph
are also quite inconsistent. They vary a lot more all throughout the graph compared to other cases that have early spread,
but get reduced as the evaluation count rises.

The graph of F3, while containing a fairly compact standard deviation, is slightly less tight compared to the F3 graph from
(1+1) EA. This could suggest that the data of F3 is less suited for RLS's method of finding improvements, although RLS did
manage to find the optimal solution for all runs faster than (1+1) EA.

F18 was once again quite different to the previous three graphs. While showing hints at a sigmoid curve structure, the data
was all quite sporadic, making any discernible structure difficult to identify. Compared to (1+1) EA, RLS did manage to reach
similar levels of fitness at a significantly low fraction of the evaulations. 

The graph of F23 also showed an abnormally large standard deviation spread in the early evaluations. The mean fitness line
on this graph resembles that of a sigmoid curve to much better degree, but did take a proportionally longer time to smooth
out the curve near the top. As has been consistent throughout previous RLS graphs, F23 was also completed much earlier than 
that of (1+1) EA's F23 graph, however this lead to a larger proportion of the evaluations having a significant standard
deviation spread. 

F24 held a fairly consistent standard deviation spread throughout the entire graph, along with a clear sigmoid curve structure.
This graph did have some bigger outliers than most others, slightly influencing the middle component of the graph.
Similar to (1+1) EA's F24 graph, the standard deviatin did not close in near the end of the graph either.

F25 almost resembled F23 in shape for the standard deviation, however it was not nearly as pronounced and instead reduced the
high spread found early on. The runs that RLS produced for F25 were quite different in fitness early on, but converged into
each other near the 100 evaluation mark.

Comparison and Summary

Due to the nature of RLS, it had a lot more minor improvements all throughout the graphs compared to (1+1) EA.
The best example of this would be the results of F1, where RLS had a lot of back to back improvements, almost resembling a
staircase in shape. The (1+1) EA did occasionally find a lot of minor improvements as well, but often more spread out and
taking a few extra evaluations in between. These minor improvements may have been the leading cause to allow RLS to
consistently outperform (1+1) EA in fitness growth, generally taking a much lower fraction of evaluations to garner similar
results.

